Publishing documentation -part 2 (#6218)
dotnet/arcade: Documentation/CorePackages/Publishing.md

This document describes the infrastructure provided by the Arcade SDK for publishing build assets.

### What is V1 publishing?

The publishing infrastructure has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to the default channel will execute. This is for arcade3.x only.

V1 came into existance when we branched for release/3.x in arcade. Master and arcade/3.x initially had the same publishing logic. Overtime the publishing stage in arcade master evolved so that became V2 publishing.

Asset manifest Example : 

`publishingVersion` is not present in V1.

```XML

> <Build Name="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" BuildId="20200915.7" Branch="refs/heads/release/3.x" Commit="0f733414ac0a5e5d4b7233d47851a400204a7cac" AzureDevOpsAccount="dnceng" AzureDevOpsBranch="refs/heads/release/3.x" AzureDevOpsBuildDefinitionId="282" AzureDevOpsBuildId="816405" AzureDevOpsBuildNumber="20200915.7" AzureDevOpsProject="internal" AzureDevOpsRepository="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" InitialAssetsLocation="https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_apis/build/builds/816405/artifacts" IsStable="False" Location="https://dotnetfeed.blob.core.windows.net/arcade-validation/index.json">

Reviewer: [nit] can you add line breaks for each attribute? would make this a lot more readable. When parsed this just results in a very long line.

```

> All the 3.1 services branches of repos use this version of the infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the 3.1 servicing branches of repos use this version of the infrastructure.
```

The distinction between V1 and V2 is that V1 serves for arcade3.x only and V2 serves for all the other repos. Also the asset manifest in V2 contains the `publishingVersion = 2`.

Example asset manifest from arcade-validation:
```XML
<Build PublishingVersion="2" Name="dotnet-arcade-validation" BuildId="20200918.1" Branch="refs/heads/master" Commit="4aa1a2a24a2c7685fdbfea89f4496d8a31a05264" AzureDevOpsAccount="dnceng" AzureDevOpsBranch="refs/heads/master" AzureDevOpsBuildDefinitionId="282" AzureDevOpsBuildId="820763" AzureDevOpsBuildNumber="20200918.1" AzureDevOpsProject="internal" AzureDevOpsRepository="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" InitialAssetsLocation="https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_apis/build/builds/820763/artifacts" IsStable="False">
<Package Id="Validation" Version="1.0.0-prerelease.20468.1" />

```

Example from arcade-validation : 

![V2-publishing](./images/V2-publishing.PNG)

### What is V3 publishing? How is it different from V2?

> In V3, we have a single stage called 'Publish Using Darc', handling publishing for all available channels. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. V3 uses [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) to promote builds based on the current configured default channels for the branch just built. [Maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel. add-build-to-channel queues a new build of this pipeline and waits for it to publish assets for all the configured default channels.

Reviewer: [nit] some wording to reduce redundancy a little.
```suggestion
In V3, we have a single stage called 'Publish Using Darc', handling publishing for all available channels. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. V3 uses [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) to promote builds based on the current configured default channels for the branch just built.
The [maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel(s).
`Add-build-to-channel` queues a new build of this pipeline and waits for it to publish assets to the appropriate locations.
```

> V3 uses a single stage for publishing infrastructure, reducing UI clutter. In addition, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository.

Reviewer: [nit]

```suggestion
Using a single stage for the publishing infrastructure reduces UI clutter. In addition, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository.
```
I realized we missed a very important benefit. The fact that it's a single stage reduces the number of machines used during publishing, which speeds up the whole process. I think it's worth noting that.

Example from arcade-validation: 

![V3-publishing](./images/V3-publishing.PNG)

### How to upgrade from V2 to V3?

The following changes have to be made:
1) Create or update eng/Publishing.props, adding the following MSBuild property:

```
<PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
```

Example: 
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project>
   <PropertyGroup>
      <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
   </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```
arcade-validation example : https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/a3b8def7412266282cd23edf9e84176f6afe52a5/eng/Publishing.props#L4

2) In the azure-pipelines.yml file(or your pipeline file), add the `publishingInfraVersion` parameter to the post-build template.

Example: 
```
  - template: eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml
    parameters:
      publishingInfraVersion: 3
      enableSymbolValidation: false
      enableSigningValidation: false
      enableNugetValidation: false
      enableSourceLinkValidation: false
```
arcade-validation example : https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/a3b8def7412266282cd23edf9e84176f6afe52a5/azure-pipelines.yml#L206

> ## Basic onboarding scenario

Reviewer: [nit]

Maybe worth mentioning that this is for onboarding a new repository to v3 directly? so maybe something like "Basic onboarding scenario for new repositories to the current version (V3)" ?

> 1. Update the Arcade SDK version used by the repository to `1.0.0-beta.19360.8` or newer.

Reviewer: Is there a new minimum version that repos need now?

> 2. Disable asset publishing during the build. There are two common situations here. Some build definitions make use of the `jobs.yml` template and others make use of the `job.yml` (singular). The former is a wrapper around a few things, among them the `job.yml` and `publish-build-assets.yml` templates. If your build definition doesn't use `jobs.yml` you'll need to directly pass the `PublishUsingPipelines` parameter to the included templates. See examples below.

Reviewer: Do not change these numbers. This will break the automatic increment provided by the markdown syntax in case new steps need to be added to any list.

Author: It defaulted every step to 1, so I had to change that manually.

Reviewer: Yes. Everything should be a 1.

https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/#syntax

    We suggest you to use the stage name *build* and have only one build stage. However, that's not a requirement. If you choose to use a different stage name or need to use multiple build stages you'll need to pass the name of the stage(s) to the `post-build.yml` template (see table on next section).

> 5. Import the new `eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml` Arcade template at the end of the build definition. This will import all default test, validate and publishing stages provided by Arcade. The bottom part of your build definition will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Import the`eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml` Arcade template at the end of the build definition. This will import all default test, validate and publishing stages provided by Arcade. The bottom part of your build definition will look like this:
```

> 1. Import the`eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml` Arcade template at the end of the build definition. This will import all default test, validate and publishing stages provided by Arcade. For a single stage publishing infrastructure, set `publishingInfraVersion` to 3. The bottom part of your build definition will look like this:

Reviewer: When would you not want a single stage publishing infrastructure?

Author: updated this.

    ```YAML
    - ${{ if and(ne(variables['System.TeamProject'], 'public'), notin(variables['Build.Reason'], 'PullRequest')) }}:
      - template: eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml
        parameters:

>           publishingInfraVersion: 3

Reviewer: I think there needs to be some text about having to set this to 3. Just like we have for the enablePublishUsingPipelines parameter.

    | Name                                    | Type     | Description                                                                                          |Default Value |
    | --------------------------------------- | -------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----- |

>     | publishingInfraVersion                  | int      | Publishing infrastructure version - Use 3 for latest publishing infra.                               | 2    |

Reviewer: Maybe mention that the only accepted values are 2 and 3?

1. Create or update eng/Publishing.props, adding the following MSBuild property:
    ```XML
        <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
    ```

   Sample: 
     ```XML
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <Project>
           <PropertyGroup>
              <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
           </PropertyGroup>
        </Project>
     ```

   Example of the use of Publishing.props can be found in the following repos :

   * [Arcade-Validation](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/6009d37b7ecacbb0bc1e0c5a601b8d7e3b2e5fa5/eng/Publishing.props#L4)

The pipeline for a build with stages enabled will look like the one shown below.

![V3-publishing](./images/V3-publishing.PNG)

### Validating the changes

Since the post-build stages will only trigger during builds that run in the internal project (i.e., they won't show up on public builds), there are some additional steps that need to be performed in order to test that the changes to the pipeline are correct, and that publishing works as expected. 

1. Create a branch on the Azure DevOps internal mirror of the repo that includes the pipeline changes.

> 2. Set up the "General Testing Channel" as a default channel for the internal repo + branch combination using Darc.

Reviewer: Please stick to using 1. for numbered lists in order to make it easier to add new items in the middle of the list.

    ``` Powershell
    darc add-default-channel --channel "General Testing" --branch "<my_new_branch>" --repo "https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/<repo_name>"
    ```

3. Queue a build for your test branch

> 4. Once the Build and Validate Build Assets stages complete, the *Publish Using Darc* stage should execute and publish the packages to the feed during the `Publish Using Darc` job. [Maestro Promotion Pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target    channel. Make sure a new build gets queued in the `Maestro Promotion Pipeline`. `Publish Using Darc` job calls [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) which inturn queues a new build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete. 

Reviewer: > [Maestro Promotion Pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target    channel. Make sure a new build gets queued in the `Maestro Promotion Pipeline`.

 >  job calls [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) which inturn queues a new build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline

This reads weirdly. You seem to be repeating yourself a lot, and the words Maestro Promotion Pipeline kind of lose any meaning after seeing them so much in a single sentence.

Consider just saying what people should see in the `publish using darc` job. The job should inform that a new build has been triggered in the promotion pipeline, and once it succeeds the build will be in the channel.

    * [Arcade-Validation](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/master/azure-pipelines.yml)
    * [Arcade-Services](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-services/blob/master/azure-pipelines.yml)

6. Create or update eng/Publishing.props, adding the following MSBuild property:
    ```XML
        <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
    ```

   Sample: 
     ```XML
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <Project>
           <PropertyGroup>
              <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
           </PropertyGroup>
        </Project>
     ```

>    Example of basic onbaording scenario can be found in the following repos :

Reviewer: This is just an example of the arcade-validation publishing.props, not to the basic onboarding scenario.

Also typo: onbaording.

   * [Arcade-Validation](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/6009d37b7ecacbb0bc1e0c5a601b8d7e3b2e5fa5/eng/Publishing.props#L4)

The pipeline for a build with stages enabled will look like the one shown below.

> **NOTE:** You need to have the AzDO <u>*Multi-stage pipelines*</u> preview feature enabled to see an UI like the one below. Take a [look here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/project/navigation/preview-features?view=azure-devops) to see how to enable preview features in Azure DevOps.

Reviewer: Is this still relevant? I think this is the default now and you can't even turn it off in the preview features panel.

Author: Going to remove this

![V3-publishing](./images/V3-publishing.PNG)

### Validating the changes

Since the post-build stages will only trigger during builds that run in the internal project (i.e., they won't show up on public builds), there are some additional steps that need to be performed in order to test that the changes to the pipeline are correct, and that publishing works as expected. 

1. Create a branch on the Azure DevOps internal mirror of the repo that includes the pipeline changes.
2. Set up the "General Testing Channel" as a default channel for the internal repo + branch combination using Darc.

    ``` Powershell
    darc add-default-channel --channel "General Testing" --branch "<my_new_branch>" --repo "https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/<repo_name>"
    ```

3. Queue a build for your test branch

> 4. Once the Build and Validate Build Assets stages complete, the *Publish Using Darc* stage should execute and publish the packages to the feed during the `Publish Using Darc` job. [Maestro Promotion Pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target    channel.`Publish Using Darc` job calls [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) which inturn queues a new build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete. 

Reviewer: I think this needs a little bit more explanation.

Why do I have to look at another pipeline? How do I know if the publish using darc stage did the right thing and didn't just say "no channels found to publish"?

Author: I can probably add logs for when default channel in set vs when the default channel is not set.

Reviewer: That's not the intent of my comment.

This section is called "validating the changes". What is written right now might cause confusion, because it's possible for the test build to be green, but for nothing to have happened. It just needs to be clear about what I should be checking to determine if my changes are correct. I don't think logs are necessary.

    We suggest you to use the stage name *build* and have only one build stage. However, that's not a requirement. If you choose to use a different stage name or need to use multiple build stages you'll need to pass the name of the stage(s) to the `post-build.yml` template (see table on next section).

> 1. Import the`eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml` Arcade template at the end of the build definition. This will import all default test, validate and publishing stages provided by Arcade. For a single stage publishing infrastructure that reduces UI clutter and additionally, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository, set `publishingInfraVersion` to 3. The bottom part of your build definition will look like this:

Reviewer: I realize I made you add this little blurb about setting publishingInfraVersion to 3, but the way the doc is structured now, I don't think it's as needed, I think you can skip this entire remark:

>For a single stage publishing infrastructure that reduces UI clutter and additionally, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository, set `publishingInfraVersion` to 3

```suggestion
1. Import the`eng\common\templates\post-build\post-build.yml` Arcade template at the end of the build definition. This will import all default test, validate and publishing stages provided by Arcade. The bottom part of your build definition will look like this:
```

    </ItemGroup>
    ```

> You will also need to pass `publishInstallersAndChecksums=true` to the `post-build.yml` template. Make sure you do not change this value to false. 

Reviewer: If you're telling people to pass the value as true, there should be no reason why it's set to false.

My comment was about removing the instruction to pass the parameter, as true is now the default, and instead replace this whole thing with "ensure you're not passing a false value to the publishInstallersAndChecksums parameter.

Author: TBH, I did find it weird. I changed this one too

    </ItemGroup>
    ```

> You will also need to pass `publishInstallersAndChecksums=true` to the `post-build.yml` template. Currently this value is be set to true by default. 

Reviewer: I would change this to instead say to make sure you didn't set this parameter value to false.

    * [Arcade-Validation](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/master/azure-pipelines.yml)
    * [Arcade-Services](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-services/blob/master/azure-pipelines.yml)

1. Create or update eng/Publishing.props, adding the following MSBuild property:
    ```XML
        <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
    ```

   Sample: 
     ```XML
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <Project>
           <PropertyGroup>
              <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
           </PropertyGroup>
        </Project>
     ```

>    Example of the use of Publishing.props can be found in the following repos :

Reviewer: [nit]
```suggestion
   An example of the use of Publishing.props can be found in the following repo:
```

You're only linking one repo after all.

    ```

1. Queue a build for your test branch

> 1. Once the Build and Validate Build Assets stages complete, the *Publish Using Darc* stage should execute and publish the packages to the feed during the `Publish Using Darc` job. [Maestro Promotion Pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel. The job informs that a new build has been triggered in the promotion pipeline, and once it succeeds the build will be in the channel.. `Publish Using Darc` job calls [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) which inturn queues a new build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete. 

Reviewer: [nit]

```suggestion
1. Once the Build and Validate Build Assets stages complete, the *Publish Using Darc* stage should execute and publish the packages to the feed during the `Publish Using Darc` job. [Maestro Promotion Pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel. The job informs that a new build has been triggered in the promotion pipeline, and once it succeeds the build will be in the channel. The `Publish Using Darc` job calls [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) which waits until a build of the promotion pipeline publishes the assets.
```

      ManifestCommit="$(BUILD_SOURCEVERSION)"
      PublishFlatContainer="$(PublishFlatContainer)"
      AssetManifestPath="$(AssetManifestPath)"
      AssetsTemporaryDirectory="$(TempWorkingDirectory)"

>       PublishingVersion ="3" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      PublishingVersion="3" />
```

Reviewer: Can this or should this be changed to `$(PublishingVersion)`? since it was set already in publishing.props?

Author: For some places like Windows Desktop and Runtime, we had to hardcode this value. I have an issue for clean up epic to change that. So I was thinking I will hardcode that.

    </ItemGroup>
    ```

> Ensure that you pass `publishInstallersAndChecksums=true` to the `post-build.yml` template.

Reviewer: Since true is the default value. Ideally the repos won't specify anything. I'd change this to make sure you're not doing the wrong thing.

```suggestion
Ensure that you do not set `publishInstallersAndChecksums=false` in your call to the `post-build.yml` template.
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What is V1 publishing?

The publishing infrastructure has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to the default channel will execute. This is for arcade3.x only. 

Asset manifest Example : 

`publishingVersion` is not present in V1.

```

> <Build Name="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" BuildId="20200915.7" Branch="refs/heads/release/3.x" Commit="0f733414ac0a5e5d4b7233d47851a400204a7cac" AzureDevOpsAccount="dnceng" AzureDevOpsBranch="refs/heads/release/3.x" AzureDevOpsBuildDefinitionId="282" AzureDevOpsBuildId="816405" AzureDevOpsBuildNumber="20200915.7" AzureDevOpsProject="internal" AzureDevOpsRepository="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" InitialAssetsLocation="https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_apis/build/builds/816405/artifacts" IsStable="False" Location="https://dotnetfeed.blob.core.windows.net/arcade-validation/index.json">

Reviewer: Consider formatting this xml into multiple lines. It's really hard to read like this.
also, if you use ` ```xml` it will add syntax highlighting, making it even easier.

Author: sure

```

> All the 3.1 services branches of repos uses arcade 3.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the 3.1 services branches of repos uses this version of the infrastructure.
```

The distinction between V1 and V2 is that V1 serves for arcade3.x only and V2 serves for all the other repos. Also the asset manifest in V2 contains the `publishingVersion = 2`.

Example asset manifest from arcade-validation:
```
<Build PublishingVersion="2" Name="dotnet-arcade-validation" BuildId="20200918.1" Branch="refs/heads/master" Commit="4aa1a2a24a2c7685fdbfea89f4496d8a31a05264" AzureDevOpsAccount="dnceng" AzureDevOpsBranch="refs/heads/master" AzureDevOpsBuildDefinitionId="282" AzureDevOpsBuildId="820763" AzureDevOpsBuildNumber="20200918.1" AzureDevOpsProject="internal" AzureDevOpsRepository="https://dnceng@dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_git/dotnet-arcade-validation" InitialAssetsLocation="https://dev.azure.com/dnceng/internal/_apis/build/builds/820763/artifacts" IsStable="False">
<Package Id="Validation" Version="1.0.0-prerelease.20468.1" />

```

Example from arcade-validation : 

![V2-publishing](./images/V2-publishing.PNG)

### What is V3 publishing? How is it different from V2?

> In V3, we have a single stage called 'Publish Using Darc', handling publishing for all available channels. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. V3 uses [`darc add-build-to-channel`](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) to promote builds based on the current configured default channels for the branch just built. [Maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel.  `add-build-to-channel` queues a new build of the Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete. If the [default channel(s)](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-default-channel) is configured, this will create a build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline.

Reviewer: [nit] This is too large to be a single line.

Also, consider not repeating "Maestro promotion pipeline" so much. You're again repeating the same thing multiple times.

You can be more concise about it, such as:

>`add-build-to-channel` queues a new build of this pipeline and waits for it to publish assets for all the configured default channels.

There's no need to repeat

> V3 unifies this to a single stage, reducing UI clutter. In addition, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository.

Reviewer: Unifies what into a single stage? it reads as if you're continuing a sentence that isn't there.

There are a few benefits, but the bottom line is: you can rely on Arcade SDK and Maestro++ to determine the correct place to publish the build assets. This is specially important for servicing and/or private builds where assets must not go to public locations before further validations. The new infrastructure also performs Signing validation, SDL validation and NuGet packages metadata validation.

> ### What is V1 publishing?

Reviewer: I don't think the FAQ section is the right place for this. The explanation and motivations for the publishing versions should probably be at the top of the document, and there should be a disclaimer that these instructions are for how to onboard and how to use version 3, which is the currently supported version.

Author: there are lot of sections that were in the middle that makes sense only for V2, like why so many stages for V2. Since we did not introduce what is V1 or V2 or V3 that will be confusing. So I moved this to the top.

Reviewer: But it's not at the top, it's at the bottom in the Frequently asked questions section?

Author: I thought I moved this to the top, at least I was planning to. My bad I missed that. I will move it to the top.

Reviewer: My original comment is still valid, I don't think this belongs in the FAQ section but rather at the top of the doc.

The publishing infrastructure has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to the default channel will execute. This is for arcade3.x only. 

Asset manifest Example : 

> ![V1-asset-manifest](./images/V1-asset-manifest.PNG)

Reviewer: Why is it important to link this image?

Reviewer: The manifest is just xml, why not just use an xml code block instead of an image?

Author: I missed this one. Updating this

Here are some of the repos currently using this infrastruture: 
 1) [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn)

>  2) [Sdk](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk)

Reviewer: SDK only uses arcade 3.x in their 3.1 servicing branches, just like all of the repositories. I question the value of this information in this doc, especially when a repo might move to a different version whenver.

Author: Is it better just to say all the 3.1 services branches of repos uses arcade 3.x?

Reviewer: Yeah, that makes more sense to me.

### What is V2 publishing?

The publishing infrastructure has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to default channel will execute. All the other stages will execute the Setup Maestro Vars job but will not publish.

The distinction between V1 and V2 is that V1 serves for arcade3.x only and V2 serves for all the other repos. Also the asset manifest in V2 contains the `publishingVersion = 2`.

Example asset manifest from arcade-validation:

![V2-asset-manifest](./images/V2-asset-manifest.PNG)

> Example from arcade-validation : 

Reviewer: Example of what?

![V2-publishing](./images/V2-publishing.PNG)

### What is V3 publishing? How is it different from V2?

> In V3, we have a single stage called 'Publish Using Darc', handling publishing for all available channels. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. V3 uses `darc add-build-to-channel` to promote builds based on the current configured default channels for the branch just built. [Maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750) is a pipeline used to publish the packages to the target channel.  `add-build-to-channel` queues a new build of the Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete. If the [default channel(s)](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-default-channel) is configured, this will create a build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline.

Reviewer: Maybe include a link to the add-build-to-channel documentation when you mention it?

> In V2, publishing has a stage per channel, each stage activated even though it may not publish to that channel. V3 unifies this to a single stage, reducing UI clutter. In addition, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository.

Reviewer: You already mentioned that v2 publishing has a stage per channel. You can probably just start here with what you really want to say, which are the benefits of using v3.

> If default channel is not configured, [add-build-to-channel](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-build-to-channel) can be used to publish to the channel(s), this is applicable to both V2 and V3.

Reviewer: In fact, there's already a question like that further down.

Example from arcade-validation: 

![V3-publishing](./images/V3-publishing.PNG)

### How to upgrade from V2 to V3?

> Following changes has to be made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following changes have to be made
```

1) Create or update eng/Publishing.props, adding the following MSBuild property:

```
<PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
```

Example: 
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Project>
   <PropertyGroup>
      <PublishingVersion>3</PublishingVersion>
   </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```
arcade-validation example : https://github.com/dotnet/arcade-validation/blob/a3b8def7412266282cd23edf9e84176f6afe52a5/eng/Publishing.props#L4

> 2) In azure-pipelines.yml file, the call to the post-build.yml requires additional parameter publishingInfraVersion 

Reviewer: Repos might call their pipeline file whatever they want, it's not guaranteed to always be azure-pipelines.yml. That's just the default.

Also, @MattGal's previous feedback about using articles.

in *the* azure-pipelines.yml file... add * the* "publishingInfraVersion" parameter

|                     | https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/public/_packaging/dotnet3/nuget/v3/index.json |
| dotnet3-transport   | .NET Core 3 non-shipping packages                            |
|                     | https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/public/_packaging/dotnet3-transport/nuget/v3/index.json |

### What is V2 publishing?

> Publishing job in V2 runs in stage(s) representing a channel(s) that is configured as a default channel for the build in Maestro++. All the other stages will execute the Setup Maestro Vars job but will not publish. 

Reviewer 2: The stages in v2 just represent available channels. The stages corresponding to default channels for the repo will execute.

Author: Updated this

Example from arcade-validation : 

![V2-publishing](./images/V2-publishing.PNG)

### What is V3 publishing? How is it different from V2?

> In V3 we have one stage for publishing job called 'Publish-using-darc'. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. Note that [default channel(s)](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-default-channel) has to be configured for this stage to create a build in Maestro++.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps it's more like "In v3 we have one stage, called 'Publish Using Darc' handling publishing for all available channels".

Also: default channels don't have to be configured for v3 (or v2). add-build-to-channel is available for both.

Reviewer 2: Might also want to mention that the v3 publishing actually calls darc and launches a new build of the promotion pipeline.

Author: I added this too.

> In V2 publishing job runs in multiple stages, it would show stage(s) activated even though it would not publish to that channel. So in V3 we unified it to only one stage.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:

V3 brings the following advantages over v2:
- Some classes of changes can be made to publishing without an arcade update.
- Reduced UI clutter.

Author: done

| dotnet3-transport   | .NET Core 3 non-shipping packages                            |
|                     | https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/public/_packaging/dotnet3-transport/nuget/v3/index.json |

### What is V1 publishing?

> Publishing job has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to default channel will execute. This is for arcade3.x only.

Reviewer: "Job" has a very specific meaning when you pile it along with "stages", so this sentence is a bit weird. A stage may contain many jobs, so I wouldn't call it a publishing "job". Maybe "publishing infrastructure" or "publishing implementation"

Reviewer 3: Nit:  Use articles, e.g. "The publishing job", "the default channel (for this repository?):

Reviewer 3: This needs an intro statement answering questions like :  

- What makes v1 distinct? (maybe this blurb is the answer, I can't tell?)
- which repos / time frames correspond to which versions?
- Why did we leave it?

Author: difference between v1 and v2 is v1 serves for arcade 3.x only and V2 has a publishing version param in asset manifest. I highlighted that in the FAQ.

### What is V2 publishing?

> In V2 Publishing job has multiple stage(s), these stages represent available channels. Only the stages corresponding to default channel will execute. All the other stages will execute the Setup Maestro Vars job but will not publish. 

Reviewer: This is also true for what you say is v1 publish. Is the only difference between v1 and v2 that v1 is what's enabled in the release/3.x branch?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer: Then I think this needs further clarification? You're saying both are the exact same thing, except one of them is only in 3.x? is there no other difference? why did we make the distinction?

Example from arcade-validation : 

![V2-publishing](./images/V2-publishing.PNG)

### What is V3 publishing? How is it different from V2?

> In V3, we have a single stage called 'Publish Using Darc', handling publishing for all available channels. Even if the repo branch is associated to more than one default channel(s) there will be only one stage. V3 uses `darc add-build-to-channel` to promote builds based on the current configured default channels for the branch just built. `add-build-to-channel` queues a new build of the Maestro Promotion Pipeline and waits for promotion to complete.

Reviewer: You mention a maestro promotion pipeline. What is that?

Author: I updated this

> In V2, publishing has a stage per channel, each stage activated even though it may not publish to that channel. V3 unifies this to a single stage, reducing UI clutter. In addition, some classes of changes (e.g. addition of new channels) can be made to publishing directly without an arcade update.

Reviewer: >can be made to publishing directly without an arcade update

I would say something like "can be added to the infrastructure without requiring an arcade update in a consumer repository"

In V2 and V3, 

> 1) If the [default channel(s)](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/ec191f3d706d740bc7a87fbb98d94d916f81f0cb/Documentation/Darc.md#add-default-channel) is configured, this will create a build in Maestro Promotion Pipeline.

Reviewer: I don't think 1) is true for v2?

Author: redid this

> ### Where can I see publishing logs?

Reviewer: DO you think it's worth splitting this and keeping both?

In v2: keep what was there already.

in v3: what you changed it to.

Author: eventually everything is going to be on V3. I agree till then we should have both. I will that back

> Under `Publish Using Darc` job get the link to the newly queued build in [Maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750). The publishing logs are stored inside an Azure DevOps artifacts container named `PostBuildLogs`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the `Publish Using Darc` job get the link to the newly queued build in the [Maestro promotion pipeline](https://dnceng.visualstudio.com/internal/_build?definitionId=750). The publishing logs are stored inside an Azure DevOps artifacts container named `PostBuildLogs`. 
```
